well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
a meme and it's not just a mean in the
sense of an image it's an idea that
people have and we're gonna look into it
understand that nothing I say tonight
should be taken as an endorsement of any
kind of state economy this is just me
trying to get to the bottom of something
because the idea is showing up because
of Bernie because you know if we like
Bernie we're gonna get breadlines
because he is a socialist ok first
Bernie's not a socialist he's a social
democrat
this is made even more confusing by the
fact that he's described often as a
Democratic Socialist
none of his policies are socialist they
are the policies of the Social Democrat
politicians often get described as
something they are not take a look at
Trump he's often described as a
Republican when he's really a fascist
that's how that works it's not it's he's
not a socialist but the idea the mean is
the breadline thing socialism brings
poverty that's the idea is it true there
are four countries today that self
identify as Marxist Leninist to keep it
simple with absolutely no nuance we're
just gonna say hardcore socialists all
right certainly if this idea was true
those would be the four poorest
countries on the planet are they no not
even close certainly one of them is at
least in like the ten poorest now 20
poorest no 30 40 50 60 70 no no no no no
you have to get up to 95
louse those countries incidentally are
Cuba China Laos and Vietnam there are
nine more countries that reference
socialism in their constitution but they
aren't full-blown socialists okay
certainly those are the poorest
countries now if you were to take the
bottom fifty poorest countries two of
them would be on that list too
incidentally both of those countries
Tanzania and Guyana
both of them are countries that were
pillaged via colonialism by capitalist
society until the 1960s if you were to
exclude those you would have to get up
to 87 before you find a country that
mentioned socialism in its constitution
those other countries by the way are
Algeria Bangladesh Guiana India and
North Korea Nicaragua Portugal Sri Lanka
and Tanzania so out of the 50 poorest
countries 96 percent are operating under
some form of a capitalist society some
form of a capitalist economy some cases
they're mixed it certainly doesn't seem
like the breadline thing is true when
you look at countries like Cuba who is
147th and then you have to factor in the
fact that they've been sanctioned for
decades they've had decades worth of
sanctions hitting their economy and
there's still 147
another way to look at this would be to
go from the other side what are the five
most powerful economies in the world two
of them are on this list it's just not
true it's cold war propaganda that needs
to go away
China and India China is always in the
top five India or falls between three
and six depending on the year it's just
a falsehood we need to keep in mind that
shortly before the breadlines
there were people in the united states
selling their children because they
couldn't afford to feed them it's just
not true it's almost like the economic
system and the governmental system
aren't always connected one of the other
things that we need to keep in mind is
that socialism attempts in theory to
eliminate poverty capitalism requires
poverty it's not a defect it's a planned
feature of it it's the stick to go along
with the carrot if you are a good little
boy or girl and you're a good consumer
and you play by all the rules and you do
what you're supposed to you get the
carrot of the middle class if you don't
you get the stick to knock you out into
the street into poverty poverty is the
silent ever-present policeman that keeps
the capitalist system moving
the breadline thing just needs to go
away it's not true anyway it's just a
thought y'all have a good night